THE ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU MAY HAVE
BEEN PROPPING UP HAMAS, WITH
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, OUT FRONT.
>> ISRAEL'S MORNING CONTINUES
EVEN AS BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
GROWS.
IN A SERIES OF INTERVIEWS WITH
KEY ISRAELI PLAYERS, CNN AND THE
ISRAELI PLATFORM OR TOLD HOW
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU ALLOW CASH
DONATIONS TO HAMAS FOR YEARS
WITHOUT SUPERVISION.
DESPITE CONCERNS FROM WITHIN
HIS OWN GOVERNMENT.
>> $360 MILLION. SIMPLE
MATHEMATICS.
>> IT'S A LOT OF MONEY.
>> THE DOLLAR IN GAZA IS LIKE
$20 IN THE U.S. FOR THEM, IT
WAS LIKE OXYGEN.
CAN YOU LIVE WITHOUT OXYGEN,
NO.
IT'S A HISTORIC MISTAKE.
>> FORMER DEFENSE MINISTER
BENNETT SAID HE WAS AMONG THOSE
REPEATEDLY RAISING CONCERNS TO
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU I STOPPED TH
BECAUSE I BELIEVED IT WAS A
HORRENDOUS MISTAKE TO ALLOW
HAMAS TO HAVE ALL OF THE
SUITCASES FULL OF CASH THAT
GOES DIRECTLY TO REARM
THEMSELVES AGAINST ISRAELIS.
WHY WOULD WE FEED THEM CASH TO
KILL US?
>> THE CAST DELIVERIES WERE
SUPPOSED TO HELP AMONG OTHER
HUMANITARIAN NEEDS, PAY CAUSES
CIVIL SERVANTS AND PICTURES IN
2018 SHOWED WORKERS LINING UP
TO RECEIVE $100 BILLS.
ISRAEL APPROVED THE DEAL IN A
SECURITY CABINET MEETING IN
AUGUST 2018, DURING A PREVIOUS
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU TENURE AS
PER MR. AND AN ISRAELI OFFICIAL
DEFENDED THE DECISION TELLING
CNN, SUCCESSIVE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENTS ENABLED MONEY TO GO
TO GAZA, NOT IN ORDER TO
STRENGTHEN HAMAS BUT TO PREVENT
A HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
THAT'S TRUE, BUT NO ONE ELSE
APPROVED IT IN CASH.
FORMER MINISTER BENNETT SAID
THAT BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
UNDERESTIMATED HAMAS.
>> I THINK THE APPROACH TOWARDS
HAMAS WAS ONE OF SORT OF A
LUCID TYPE TERROR ORGANIZATION
THAT CAN SHOOT ROCKETS, CAN
CAUSE A BIT OF HAVOC HERE AND
THERE BUT NOT MUCH MORE THAN
THAT.
>> SO UNDERESTIMATED.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
AND IN THAT SENSE, WE'VE
LEARNED A LESSON.
WE HAVE TO BELIEVE OUR ENEMIES.
>> THIS LESSON HAS BECOME A
TURNING POINT FOR ISRAEL.
ONE, EVEN LONGTIME BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU ALLY LIKE SPEAKER
HAUSER, ACKNOWLEDGED.
>> THAT WAS A STRATEGIC LESSON
FOR THE SOCIETY THAT YOU CAN
TALK A LOT ABOUT PEACE AND DO A
LOT OF THINGS, YOU CAN COME TO
THE WHITE HOUSE AND GET SOME
NOBEL PRIZES, BUT IN SOME
POINT, ENOUGH IS ENOUGH, AND IF
YOU ASK ME, WHAT SYMBOLIZED
OCTOBER SEVENTH? IT MOSTLY
SYMBOLIZED THAT THE SOCIETY NO
MORE TAKE RISKS.
>> HEATING THE TOLL OF HUMAN
SUFFERING AND INTERNATIONAL
CALLS TO SLOW THE PUMMELING OF
GAZA, BEFORE ISRAEL IS
SATISFIED HAMAS HAS BEEN
DESTROYED.
WHATEVER THE COST.
AND THAT CLAMOR TO COURSE
CORRECT IS NOT JUST THE
MESSAGE.
MANY INTERNATIONAL OBSERVERS
HAVE BEEN TELLING US THAT THEY
ARE WORRIED THAT THIS PRESSURE
ON BENJAMIN NETANYAHU TO BE
SEEN TO CORRECT HIS MISTAKE
COULD BE IMPACTING THE
WILLINGNESS OF THOSE IN